                       M A N I A C   M A N S I O N 
                             (Lucasfilm Games)

NOTES
(1)  There are FIVE possible ways to complete this adventure; this solution
works  with Dave, Syd and Bernard, and should provide insights into solving
the other variations.

(2)  In  all rooms you must open the door and in many you must also turn on
the light, neither of which is pointed out in this solution.

(3)  Don't use the flashlight or the batteries will run out (though you can
find  more!). To find a light switch in the dark, select "WHAT IS" and scan
the room by moving the cursor around.

(4)  There  are  TWO  ways  to  escape the dungeon. If two kids are trapped
there,  place  one  in  front of the door and have the other push the loose
brick  just  below  the  LEFT  window to momentarily open the dungeon door.
Quickly switch to the other kid, who will have just enough time to run out.
The other way is to use the rusty key.

                               THE SOLUTION

FRONT OF THE HOUSE
All three kids should be here. Pick up the door mat and get the key. Unlock
the front door and send all three inside. Send Bernard to the Library.

LIBRARY
Open  the  loose  panel directly below Chuck the Plant and get the cassette
tape. Switch to Dave and send him to the Kitchen.

KITCHEN
Edna catches Dave, which clears this route for the others. Dave can stay in
the  Dungeon  for now and should use the trick described in Note (4) to let
the others out when caught. Switch and send Syd into the Storage Room.

STORAGE ROOM
Have  Syd pick up the fruit drink and glass jar. Switch to Bernard and send
him to the Kitchen.

KITCHEN
Get  Bernard  to get the flashlight, then open the refrigerator and get the
Pepsi  can. Switch to Syd and send him to the Kitchen to give the glass jar
to Bernard. Sent them both to the Painting Room.

PAINTING ROOM
Syd should pick up the wax fruit and Bernard should get the paint remover.

THE TENTACLE IN THE ATTIC
Send  Syd  up the next set of stairs to the Top of the Stairs, just outside
the  Darkroom,  where he meets the Green Tentacle. Give the wax fruit, then
the fruit drink to the Tentacle and he'll let you pass.

THE RADIO ROOM
Switch to Bernard and send him here to get the dime. Then go left and climb
the  ladder to the Green Tentacle. Get the record on the shelf and find the
yellow  key  behind the Tentacle and get it. Then send Bernard to the Piano
Room.

WAS IT THE PIANO ROOM OR WAS IT MEMOREX?
Put  the  cassette  tape  in  the  cassette recorder. Put the record on the
victrola.  Turn  on  the cassette recorder and the victrola. Wait until the
glass  breaks,  then  turn  them both off. Have Bernard get the tape and go
into the Sitting Room.

THE SITTING ROOM
Bernard  should  open  the cabinet and put the tape in the cassette player.
Turn on the player and the chandelier will shatter. Turn off the player and
get  the  rusty  key that fell from the chandelier. (This unlocks the right
door  in the Dungeon). Open the old radio on top of the cassette player and
get the radio tube.

WEIGHTLIFTING AND THE HIDDEN GRATE
Send  Syd,  who may be in the Dungeon by now, to the Weightlifting Room and
have him use the Hunk-O-Matic Machine. Then send him outside the front door
and to the left of the stairs. Pick up the bushes to reveal the grate. Open
the grate, enter it and walk right to the water valve.

OFF TO THE POOL
Send  Bernard  to Edna's Room and she'll put him in the Dungeon. Unlock the
door  with  the rusty key. Have him get the silver key next to the fuse box
in  the  basement, then send him to the Storage Room. Get him to unlock the
Storage  Room with the silver key and go to the pool ladder. Fill the glass
jar with water from the pool.

UNDER THE HOUSE
Switch  to  Syd  and have him turn on the water valve. This drains the pool
and exposes the nuclear reactor's cooling rods, so you have to move fast (a
good place to SAVE your game!!).

IN THE POOL
When  the  "cut  scene"  is  over,  send Bernard down the ladder to get the
glowing  key and the radio. As soon as he's safely back on the cement, have
Syd turn off the water valve to refill the pool.

THE GARAGE
Send Syd and Bernard here and have Syd open the garage door. Bernard should
use the yellow key to open the trunk, then get the tools.

THE PLANT ROOM AND THE BROKEN WIRES
Send  Bernard  here  to  use  the paint remover on paint blotch to reveal a
door.  Open  the  door  and enter the Broken Wires Room. Turn on the light,
open  the  radio,  use batteries in flashlight, turn on flashlight, walk to
wires.

THE FUSE BOX
Send  Syd  in Edna's Room and she'll put him in the Dungeon. Have Dave push
the  loose  brick  to free Syd, then position Syd in front of the fuse box.
Open fuse box and turn off the circuit breakers.

BROKEN WIRES ROOM
When the "cut scene" ends, Bernard should fix the wires with the tools. Now
switch to Syd and turn on the circuit breakers. (The video machines are now
powered on).

EDNA AND THE WALL SAFE ROOM
Send  Syd and Bernard to the hall outside Edna's Room and have Bernard open
the  door and enter. While Edna takes him to the Dungeon, send Syd into her
room and go right to the ladder. Climb the ladder to the Safe Room. Turn on
light and open painting to reveal a wall safe.

THE MAN-EATING PLANT
Have  Bernard use the rusty key so he and Dave can escape the Dungeon. Send
Bernard  to  the  Plant  Room and use jar of water on the Man-eating Plant.
Give pepsi to Man-eating Plant. Climb up the plant to the Telescope Room.

TELESCOPE ROOM
Bernard  should  use  the  dime in the slot, then press the right button to
turn the telescope to the right.

WEIRD ED'S ROOM
Send  Dave  and  Bernard  to the doorway outside Ed's Room and have Bernard
give  the  rusty key and glowing key to Dave. Dave should open the door and
enter  Ed's.  When Ed takes Dave to the Dungeon, send Bernie into Ed's Room
where  he  must  walk  to the piggy bank, open the piggy bank, take another
dime, then go to the Telescope Room.

TELESCOPE ROOM
Bernard should use the dime in the slot, press the right button to turn the
telescope  to  the right, then use the telescope to read the combination of
the wall safe.

THE SAFE ROOM AND THE SECRET LAB
Switch  to  Syd  and  open  the wall safe with the combination that you now
know! Get the envelope, open it and get the quarter. Now send Syd back down
the  ladder,  where  Edna  will  catch him and lock him in the Dungeon with
Dave.  Switch to Dave, who should walk to the outer door and unlock the top
and bottom padlocks with the glowing key. Open the outer door to the Secret
Lab. Have Dave unlock the right Dungeon door with the rusty key.

ARCADE ROOM
Send  Syd  here  and play the Meteor Mess game with the quarter. Write down
the  high score.

WEIRD ED'S ROOM & THE HAMSTER
Send  Syd  and  Bernard to the doorway outside Ed's Room. Have Syd open the
door  and  enter.  When Ed takes him to the Dungeon, send in Bernard to get
the  hamster  and  reveal the purple card key. Get this and send Bernard to
the Radio Room. (He may get locked in the Dungeon first, however).

INTO THE SECRET LAB
Switch to Dave, who is here, and have him open the inner door to the Secret
Lab with the high score from the Meteor Mess game for the combination.

CALLING THE METEOR POLICE
Switch  to Bernard in the Radio Room and have him use the radio tube in the
tube radio. Read the poster, turn on radio, use radio to call Meteor Police
with  the  number from the poster. Now send Bernard to Edna's Room so he'll
get  put in the Dungeon. Then wait for the Meteor Police to arrive and take
out the Purple Meteor.

THE ZOM-B-MATIC ROOM AND THE METEOR ROOM
Switch to Bernard in the Dungeon, who should get the badge on the floor and
go  to the Secret Lab. Give the badge to the Purple Tentacle. After it runs
away, enter the Zom-B-Matic Room. Walk right and use the purple card key in
the key slot to enter the Meteor Room. Turn off switch!!

  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *